this video was made possible by
curiosity stream when you sign up for an
annual subscription at
curiositystream.com
h-a-i you'll also get access to nebula
home to our new documentary
the final years of mashuro this
is graham island or possibly ferdinandia
or maybe julia what you call it depends
on where you're from
kind of like how in most of the us this
would be called a sofa but people from
the midwest
might call this a davenport and people
from the south would call it a lawn
ornament
but whatever you think this island
should be called it doesn't particularly
matter
because really it should just be called
the meadow training because this island
no longer exists you see back in july
some people in a little town called
chukka sicily named such because the
founders thought it would be funny if
people in youtube videos had to
pronounce
shock hundreds of years later were out
doing whatever people did before phones
when they smelled a
very strong very bad sulfurous smell
after a long back and forth of
accusations about who smelt it and the
ensuing implications about who dealt it
they discovered that it was actually the
result of an eruption by an underwater
volcano called empedocles
located here first the people on land
saw smoke and thought it was a boat that
had caught fire
then a sea captain saw bubbling waters
and declared it a sea monster
but by july 17th it was clear that it
was neither a ship
nor a sea monster it was something much
better
an island now i want to be clear about
one thing
this island sucked it smelled like
sulfur it consisted entirely of a barren
landscape of loose volcanic rock called
tephra
and it was tiny at his peak only 4 800
meters in circumference and 63 meters
tall
also it was racist okay maybe not that
but the island
still sucked it was just a dumb lame
tiny piece of rock
but here's the thing about geopolitics
sometimes dumb lame little pieces of
rock end up mattering a lot because of
where they are just look at the uk
this particular dumb lame little piece
of rock was located in the very
important spot of here
in the middle of where the mediterranean
passes between sicily and tunisia
which meant that whoever owned it would
be able to exert control over
a key sea route and so given
how important the island was the
international community came together
in the spirit of cooperation and reached
a solution that made
everybody i'm just kidding a bunch of
people started fighting over it the
first to claim it were the brits because
after all
britain loves claiming things just ask
southern asia or
central africa or north africa or south
africa or the middle east or north
america or central america or really
anywhere except for
maybe kyrgyzstan on the 1st of august
a captain in the british royal navy
humphrey fleming scent house
landed on the island planted the union
jack declared it for old mother england
and named it graham island after sir
james graham was a guy who did some
stuff
but others soon followed next was
ferdinand ii
of the kingdom of the two sicilies
remember that before 1861
the italian peninsula was made up of a
bunch of little countries like the
kingdom of two sicilies
that all kind of hated each other unlike
now when it's all one country made up of
a bunch of regions that all kind of hate
each other
anyways ferdinand named it ferdinandia
after his best friend himself
then the french claimed it as well and
called it julia after the month of july
when it was formed
and the spanish king who was also named
ferdinand claimed it too
but he was too busy losing the american
colonies and being about to die to come
up with a fourth name for the island
for five months the nations engaged in a
heated diplomatic battle
but in the end a clear winner emerged
nobody that's because of course before
the dispute could be settled the island
saw all those countries fighting over it
and much like a child in the custody
dispute decided to run away
back into the ocean you see the tephra
that made up the island was loosely
packed which meant it was incredibly
susceptible to erosion
and by december 17 1831 enough tephra
had been washed away by the
mediterranean to take the island back
below sea level
it turned out that this wasn't the first
time this had happened in fact it was
the
fourth that we know of the first
sighting of the island happened back
during the punic wars between 264 and
241 bc
and since then every several hundred
years when the volcano empedocles has
had a large enough eruption
the island will briefly show back up
only for the seas of the mediterranean
to quickly bring it back underwater
sort of like whack-a-mole if the hammer
was erosion and the carny was an
underwater volcano
the island's last appearance was for a
brief moment in 1863 when it wasn't
around long enough for anyone to even
claim it
in 2000 and 2002 scientists thought it
might show up again
and sicily even sent a diving crew to
plant an underwater sicilian flag
which by the way is the world's
creepiest flag but it never actually
made it above water which means that i
had to look at this
terrifying flag for nothing but you know
what i didn't do for nothing
fly an entire crew to the middle of the
pacific ocean to film a feature-length
documentary called
the final years of metro it's about
climate change and nuclear testing and
the fate of the world sort of and it
doesn't even have any bad jokes in it
in all seriousness we worked really hard
on this thing and i really think you'll
like it
it's out right now on nebula and
definitely the best way to get nebula is
through curiosity streams bundle deal
where for 20 a year you get access to
curiosity stream home to thousands of
top quality documentaries
and to nebula which not only has my
documentary but has tons of content from
all your favorite educational creators
for that bundle deal
go to curiositystream.com h a
i